# HelloWorld Example

This example models a simple system with no replication constraints. The [system goal](src/edu/vanderbilt/isis/chariot/helloworld/System.ch) comprises two objectives: (1) Greeting, and (2) TimeQuery. These objectives are instantiation of *greeting_exchange* and *TimeQuery* compositions, respectively (see [composition description](src/edu/vanderbilt/isis/chariot/helloworld/Functionality.ch)). As such, the system modeled in this example requires three components; one component that provides the *sender* functionality, another component that provides the *receiver* functionality, and another component that provides the *time_server* functionality.

Instantiation of this example always results in deployment of exactly three components since this example does not include replication constraints. The *Sender* component provides the *sender* functionality by periodically sending greeting messages to the *Receiver* component. The *Receiver* component provides the *receiver* functionality by receiving greeting messages sent by the *Sender*. Furthermore, for each greeting message received, the *Receiver* component logs the message received time after asynchronously quering the *TimeServer* component, which provides the *time_server* functionality.

Above described behavior of different components are explicitly modeled if they are modeled as CHARIOT components. However, if the components are modeled as external components, their behavior, which includes their business logic, isn't explicitly modeled at design-time. The primary purpose of supporting external components is to support legacy software. However, since the current implementation of CHARIOT-ML doesn't fully support CHARIOT components as the CHARIOT-ML interpreters ignore them, most of the examples in [this](https://github.com/visor-vu/chariot-examples) repository comprises of external component. However, all three components of this particular example has been modeled as both CHARIOT component and external component.
