# SmartPowerGrid Example

This example models a simple three-bus power system with three different protection assemblies. Each bus consists of a protection assembly comprising atleast one Phasor Measurement Unit (PMU), one relay, and one breaker. Each protection assembly represents a protection zone and is modeled as separate objectives resulting in a total of three objectives: (1) Protection_Zone1, (2) Protection_Zone2, and (3) Protection_Zone3 (see system description [here](src/edu/vanderbilt/isis/chariot/smartpowergrid/System.ch)). The corresponding compositions instantiated by these objectives can be found [here](src/edu/vanderbilt/isis/chariot/smartpowergrid/Functionality.ch). Each composition and therefore objective comprises three functionalities: (1) one for the PMU, (2) one for the relay, and (3) one for the breaker.

All three of the PMU and breaker functionalities are associated with *per node* replication constraints. Node categories used to define these replication constraints can be found [here](src/edu/vanderbilt/isis/chariot/smartpowergrid/Nodes.ch). In essence, we have modeled categories representing resources that can host PMUs, breakers, and relays for each protection zone.

Although the exact number of components isn't always constant due to *per node* replication, we know that this system comprises of nine different kinds of component types. Three PMU related component types (*PMU_Z1*, *PMU_Z2*, *PMU_Z3*), one for each protection zone. Three breaker related component types (*BREAKER_Z1*, *BREAKER_Z2*, *BREAKER_Z3*), one for each protection zone. Finally, three relay related component types (*RELAY_Z1*, *RELAY_Z2*, *RELAY_Z3*), one for each protection zone.
